         UK  DATA  ARCHIVE:  IMPORTANT  STUDY  INFORMATION


SN:4800 - Edinburgh Study of Youth Transitions and Crime : 
		Waves One to Four, 1997-2001



Data Archive Processing Standards
---------------------------------
The data were processed to the UK Data Archive's 'B' standard. A 
substantial series of checks was carried out to ensure the quality of 
the data and documentation. Firstly, checks were made that the number of 
cases and variables matched the depositor's records. Secondly, logical 
checks were performed on a sample of 30 +10% of the remaining nominal 
(categorical) variables to ensure they had values within the range defined 
(either by value labels or in the depositor's documentation). Thirdly, any
data or documentation that breached confidentiality rules were altered or 
suppressed to preserve anonymity.

All notable and/or outstanding problems discovered are detailed under 
the 'Data and documentation problems' heading below.


Data and Documentation Problems
-------------------------------
No problems encountered.


Useful Notes
------------
Missing values included in the data are not coded in some cases -
codes are as follows unless otherwise stated:

8, 98, 998, 9998 etc - Missing
9, 99, 999, 9999 etc - Filtered away.

Data Analysis Reference Guide (file 4800dataanalysisrefguide.xls):
This file has not been converted to Adobe PDF and remains in its original
MS Excel format, as it contains multiple worksheets and fixed Excel
tables/frozen panes to aid users looking for variable information.

Questionnaire Section Headings:
Some fonts used for headings in the original PDF questionnaires may not
display properly. This is not a serious problem, and the relevant pages have
been annotated accordingly in the user guide.

Conversion of Documentation
---------------------------
All electronic and paper documentation supplied with this study is 
normally incorporated into the UKDA User Guide (in PDF format). The 
conversion programs used are the latest versions of Adobe PDF Writer 
for electronic documentation and Adobe Paper Capture (Acrobat 'plugin' 
version) for paper documentation. Occasionally, some or all of the 
electronic documentation cannot be usefully converted to PDF (e.g. MS 
Excel files with wide worksheets) and this is supplied in other formats. 
All User Guides are fully bookmarked.

Conversion of Data
------------------
Ingest format(s) of the data =  SPSS portable 

From January 2003 onwards, almost all data conversions have been 
performed using software developed by the UKDA. This enables 
standardisation of the conversion methods and ensures optimal data 
quality. In addition to its own data processing/conversion functionality, 
this software invokes the SPSS and StatTransfer command processors to 
perform certain translations in a standardised and optimal way. Although 
data conversion is automated, all data files created are subject to 
inspection by a UKDA data processor.

To create the format you have been supplied the data in, the following 
conversion will have been performed depending on the ingest format. Note 
that you will have only been provided the data in the format you 
requested.

SPSS portable:
If SPSS portable is not the ingest format, this format will generally 
either have been created via the SPSS command processor (e.g. if the 
ingest format is SPSS .sav, SAS, Excel, or dBase), or if the ingest 
format is STATA, the SPSS portable version will be created via the 
Stat/Transfer command processor. If the Ingest format is text (e.g. 
fixed width ASCII) and no setup files are provided, the UKDA will 
write the necessary setup files to read the data into SPSS.

STATA:
If STATA is not the ingest format, all STATA files will have been 
created from SPSS .sav format via the Stat/Transfer command 
processor. All files created are in STATA 6 format. Importantly, 
Stat/Transfer's optimisation routine is run so that variables with 
SPSS write formats narrower than the data (e.g. numeric variables with
10 decimal places of data formatted to FX.2) are not rounded upon 
conversion to STATA because they are converted to "doubles" rather than 
floats. User missing values are copied across into STATA where the user 
definition is lost), but the code exists (as opposed to being collapsed
into STATA's single missing code (versions 6 and 7). 
Issues: Variables that include both date and time in the SPSS version, 
such as mm-dd-yyyy  hh:mm:ss (e.g. 18-JUN-2001 13:28:00), will lose 
the time information and become date only. If the time information is 
critical, a new variable will have been created in the STATA data file 
by the UKDA.

Tab-delimited text:
If tab-delimited text is not the ingest format, tab-delimited files 
are created from SPSS portable files via the SPSS command processor, 
Excel spreadsheets, or MS Access databases. When exporting from Access 
data tables to tab-delimited text, the many undesirable embedded 
special characters allowed by access memo and text fields - tabs, 
carriage returns, line feds, etc., - are stripped out by the UKDA 
software.
Issues: Date formats in SPSS are always exported to mm/dd/yyyy in tab-
delimited text format - so you may note a mismatch with the 
documentation on such variables. Variables that include both date and 
time such as. mm-dd-yyyy  hh:mm:ss (e.g. 18-JUN-2001 13:28:00), will 
lose the time information and become mm/dd/yyyy. If the time 
information is critical, a new variable will have been created in the 
tab-delimited data file by the UKDA. All users of the data in tab-
delimited format are provided with the SPSS data dictionary, this 
being the rich text file named according to the convention 
<datafilename>_variableinformation.rtf. This contains the SPSS format 
information as well as the variable and value labels, and it is 
thereby recommended all tab-delimited data users consult this 
information. If the tab-delimited data were converted from MS Access, 
analogous 'data documenter' output will be supplied in rtf format. 
Likewise, the files may contain SQL setup information.

MS Excel:
If MS Excel is not the ingest format, Excel files are created via the 
SPSS command processor. The date and time issues noted under STATA and 
tab-delimited apply to SPSS to Excel conversion via the SPSS command 
processor.

MS Access:
Due to the substantial incompatibilities between versions of MS 
Access, the UKDA only make data available in MS Access format if this 
is the ingest format and the database contains important information 
in addition to the data tables (forms, queries, etc.).

Other formats:
Data are only made available in other formats on the rare occasion 
when there is no reliable method of extracting the data into a more 
accessible format.

